Onboarding PR: first gamification use cases (#105)
ElektraInitiative/PermaplanT: doc/usecases/gamification/gain_blossoms.md

# Use Case: Gain Blossoms

## Summary

- **Scope:** Gain Blossoms
- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User
- **Brief:** The user is awarded with Blossoms for achieving certain milestones.
- **Status:** Draft

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:**
  - The user has opened the app and uses it.
- **Main success scenario:**

>   - The user can see a list of incompleted milestones and their respective requirements, like e.g. planting full groups of companions or collaborating with other users on their map, in the users profile.

Author: Should milestones always refer to the first time a user uses a feature or should we also include follow-up milestones with higher amounts of the same requirement, like e.g. after planting their first plant the next step would be planting 10 plants etc.? Should not be that much of a step up difficulty wise for us but could increase long term engagement with the milestones system.

>   - The user can see a list of incompleted milestones and their respective requirements, like e.g. planting full groups of companions or collaborating with other users on their map, in the users profile.

Reviewer: I like the idea. One important thing: The milestones should (similarly) repeat every year, this is also important to note in the use case. This is because some plans need to be refined or redone every season.

  - The user is being kept updated on their progress when pursuing actions to complete a milestone.
  - Upon completing a milestone, the user is informed of their achievement and is awarded the corresponding Blossom.

> - **Alternative scenario:**

Reviewer: And blossoms should be collected within a year, and there should be a way to see the yearly achievements.

> # Use Case: Gain Blossoms

Reviewer: Yvonne has some concerns if we will be able to draw so many different blossoms. She will do a first attempt and we will see if we need to adjust to a larger group of prices (like any harvesting goods, where we will have many icons anyway...)

Author: I agree with you that the amount of icons might be a little high. Maybe we can reduce the number of fully unique blossoms and instead do a few base models and adding slight variations. We can also use this to indicate affiltiation to a specific track (e.g. all expert track blossoms are blue) and connection between individual milestones / milestone rareness (e.g. a blossom for 'honoring a map on national flower day' could have more pedals than 'honor your first map' but be the same base flower)

    - planting their first recommended diversity plant.
    - using an element from a new layer for the first time.
    - uploading their first photo in the [photo layer](../layers/photo_layer.md).
    - submitting updated plant data.
    - harvesting a plant for the first time.
    - updating their plant relations with data from the harvest for the first time.
    - reaching a specific [diversity score](diversity_score.md) goal.
    - gathering all ingredients for an ingredient list for the first time.
    - buying their first batch of seeds.
    - creating their first event.
    - honoring a map from another user for the first time.
    - posting their first comment on a map from another user.
    - writing their first review of a map from another user.
    - receiving their first honor from another user.
    - receiving their first review from another user.
    - opening their first map for collaboration.
    - collaborating on a map from another user for the first time.
    - having their first conversation with another user through [matchmaking](../matchmaking.md).
    - adding their first new plant in the apps database.
    - adding their first new seed in the apps database.

>   - Blossoms are grouped in four different tracks by what goal they try to incentivize:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Blossoms are grouped in different tracks by what goal they try to incentivize, e.g.:
```

- **Level:** User Goal
- **Actors:** App User
- **Brief:** The user is awarded with Blossoms for achieving certain milestones.
- **Status:** Assigned
- **Assignee** Thorben

## Scenarios

- **Precondition:**
  - The user has opened the app and uses it.
- **Main success scenario:**
  - The user can see a list of incompleted milestones and their respective requirements. An user can reach a certain milestone by e.g.:
    - starting their first map.
    - planting their first plant.
    - planting their first full group of companions.
    - planting their first recommended plant.
    - using an element from a new layer for the first time.
    - submitting updated plant data.
    - harvesting a plant for the first time.
    - becoming a member.
    - reaching a specific [diversity score](diversity_score.md) goal.
    - gathering all ingredients for an ingredient list for the first time.
    - uploading their first photo in the [photo layer](../layers/photo_layer.md).
    - buying their first batch of seeds.
    - creating their first event.

>     - honoring a map from another user for the first time.

Reviewer: Not only "first" but also:
- how often repeated (e.g. once a month for several months)
- several consecutive days
- on special days (e.g. on 12th March https://nationaltoday.com/national-plant-a-flower-day/)
- a specific number within a period of time
- other rules you can think of :wink:

Author: I think we should write down the exact milestones in a different document as to not cluster the basic description of the use case.

Reviewer: Both is fine: As these are all events for the user, writing them directly in a use case also seems okay to me.
